The security policies derived from the business policy.
So the business policy describes: what we're going to do.
Not how we're going to do it.
This security policy describes how we're going to do it.
Security enforcement point/security mechanisms  - technical implementation of that security policy.
(Security policy implementation mechanism or delivery vehicle)

Some examples of those are protocol suppression for example to turn off FTP.
That security policy would 

be no FTPs allow, 
Business policy (No large-scale data movements)
Security policy would be no FTPs allow
Security enforcement point would be to disable FTP,


Security policies -> (have technical implementation ) Security services ->
-> ( s. p. controls/implemented by hard/software/processes ) security mechanisms (uses sec. services to enforce sec. policy)

Security policy: 

Security services: Enchanse security of data procesing systems using one or more security mechanisms.
Authentication, 
Access control, Data confidentiality,
Data integrity, Non-repudiation, availability


Security mechanisms:
biometrics, certificates, passwords and keys, user permisions, vpns, malware detection, 
secure channels, time limits, allarms, locks, backups, dmz, firewalls, proxies, single acces point, vp


Specific security mechanisms:
Cryptography, digital signatures, access controls,
Tdata integrity, authentication exchange, traffic padding,
routing control, notarization

Pervasice security mechanisms:
trusted functionality, security labes,event detection,
security audit trails, security recovery


Security services and mechanisms are closely related because a mechanism
or combination of mechanisms are used to provide a service:
Security services:
    Authentication: assures recipient that the message is from the source that it claims to be from. 
    Access Control: controls who can have access to resource under what condition
    Availability: available to authorized entities for 24/7. 
    Confidentiality: information is not made available to unauthorized individual
    Integrity: assurance that the message is unaltered
    Non-Repudiation: protection against denial of sending or receiving in the communication
	
	
	
ITIL (information technology Infrastructure library)
ITIL is best practice framework describing how IT resources should be organized to deliver Business value.
It models how to document processes, functions, and roles of IT Service Management (ITSM)


Service Lifecycle phases:
Service strategy - plant on how I will support my customers: Service portfolio financial, demand, business relationship management. 
Service Design - designing new or editing existing services: service catalogue management, service level (SLA), Information security management, supplier management, Availability Management
Service Transition - build or deploy changes: change management, project management, release and deployment management, service validation and testing, knowledge management
Service Operations - steady state monitoring:event management, incident management, problem management
Service continual improvements - continual service improvement: review metrics, identify opportunities, test and prioritize, implement improvements


Key ITL service management Processes:
Problem - (lifecycle of managing problems) cause of one or more incidents, root cause
Change - manage changes (recognize, plan, assess impact, get approoval, shceduling, implement, closure) to baseline service assets and configuration items across the ITL Lifecycle
Incident - (unplanned interruption to IT service) return state of service as fast as possible
Log->Assign->Track->Categorize->Prioritize->Resolve->Close
Event - detected occurence that has some significance to IT infra or delivery.
Service level (SLA) = planing, coordinating, monitoring and reporting SLA. Review of achievements and meeting the requirements. Service's gradual improvement.
Information Security Management - having and maintaining Information Security Policy and specific security policies that address each aspect of strategy, objectives and regulations.


As you have heard in this module, Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) describes processes, procedures, tasks, and checklists which are not organization-specific nor technology-specific.
You can learn more about the ITIL processes on Wikipedia:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ITIL#ITIL_4_Edition .
You also can view the certification's that only individuals can achieve ion the Axelos' website:  https://www.axelos.com/welcome-to-itil-4

What is IT Service Management?
Depending on your organization or the organization you may find a future opportunity to explore, many times there is confusion between IT Service Management and ITIL.  
Read through Axelos' explanation of how IT Service Management (ITSM) and ITIL are related.
https://www.axelos.com/best-practice-solutions/itil/what-is-it-service-management
 “The implementation and management of quality IT 
 services that meet the needs of the business. 
 IT service management is performed by IT service providers
 through an appropriate mix of people, process and information technology.”


Alice, Bob, Trudy - known friends who want to communicate securely, while Trudy is threat actor.

CIA triad: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability - key security objectives.
Confidentiality - preserving authorized restrictions information access control and preventing information disclosure. 
Loss of confidentiality is the unauthorized disclosure of guarded information. 
Integrity - guarding against improper information modification or destruction. Including information 
non-repudiation and authenticity. Loss is the unauthorized modification or destruction of information.
Availability - timely and reliable access to information. Loss of availability is the distruption of acces to an information system.

http://web.eecs.utk.edu/~jysun/files/

Authenticity - genuine and verifiable. Whatyou know, what you have, and who you are.
Accountability - mapping actions to an identity.

Information Security Forum (ISF) is an independent, not-for-profit organization with membership by many fortune 500 companies.  ISF researches key issues in the present and future that will impact its members and shares this research to its members.  Some research is only available to members but ISF also shares with non-members publications and webinars.
Threat Horizon reports are produced annually by the ISF for people who want to understand the cyber risks and their potential impacts in the future.
Download and read the executive summary and report, Threat Horizon 2019:  Disruption. Distortion. Deterioration:  https://www.securityforum.org/research/threat-horizon-2019/
This report covers 9 threat areas over 3 themes:
    DISRUPTION: from an over reliance on fragile connectivity
    DISTORTION: as trust in the integrity of information is lost
    DETERIORATION: when controls are eroded by regulations and technology


physical access control methods: perimetral, building, work areas, servers and networks.
Technical uses of physical security controls: ID, badges, lists and logs, door access control systems, tokens,
proximity sernsors, tramps, physical block, cameras.
logical access control methods: ACL (from Routers), GPO (policies), Accounts (centralized, descentralized, expiration)

Monitoring:
IDS - intrusion detection system
IPS - intrusion detection and prevention connection kill system
Honeypot - trap for malicious actor
Sniffers - packet analyzers

BYOD technical controls:
Strict policy, use of technical control MDM, Training, Strong perimetral controls.


Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP):
Injection
Broken Authentication and session management
Cross site scripting
Insecure direct object references
Security misconfiguration
Sensitive data exposure
Missing function level access control
Cross site request forgery
Using known vulnerable components
Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards

https://www.techotopia.com/index.php/Mandatory,_Discretionary,_Role_and_Rule_Based_Access_Control


Windows User (GUI interaction) mode and Kernel mode (OS technology, services)
User mode: application starts a process (private virtual adress space, private hande rable) Each app runs in issolation.
Kernel mode: all code from kernel rus in single virtual address space. If driver writes data to wrong place, kernel or other driver data will be compromised.
If cernel mode driver crashes, the OS crashes too.

File systems (enables application to store and retrieve files on storage devices. Files are placed in hierarchical structure. Naming conventions. 
File is unit of data in file system
Directory is a hirarchical collection of directorues and files.
NTFS and FAT
-NTFS (new technology file system) 1993
-FATxx (file allocation table) since 80's. Number tells block size in bits. FAT16, FAT32. Used mainly for remote storage devices under 32GB capacity.

Directory structure:
Different bit systems different amount of memory that can be addressed for apps.
Programs - progam files
ProgramData - every users programs data location
User dir - for user profile
App Data - program data specific to user
Windows - windows system directory (System, System32, SysWow64(32-bit DLLs)for DLL files)


Shortcuts and commands:

Ctrl+Z roll back
Ctrl+W close windows
Ctrl+A select everything
Alt+Tab switch tabs
Alt+F4 shuts active app.
Win+D show/hide desktop
Wind+arrow switch active window
WIn+tab task view
Shift+TAB mover back and forward through options
F2 rename file
F5 refresh page
Win+L lock computer
Win+I windows settings
Win+S search bar
Win+PrtnScn whole screen capture and saves png file
Alt+PrtnScrn partial screen capture does not save file
Ctrl shift esc - same as ctr alt delete - task manager
Win+C cortana
Win+Ctrl+D virtual desktops
Win+X hidden menu



Linux
Open source operating system
Components: Shell and kernel
Kernel: core of OS, interacts with hardware. Manages system, user input/output, processes, files, memory and devices.
Shell is used to interact with kernel. User input.

File system:
Files represented with "-" in cmd line.
Directory is special type of file. Holds info about other files. "d" in CLI.

/Root partition. Only root user has write privileges here. /root is not same as /./root which is home directory of root.
/bin contains binary executables. ls, cat, so on...
/sbin system maintenance executables. iptables, ifconfig, reboot.
/etc  config files of programs.
/var variable files, logs, changing files
/tmp temp files
/home users dir, personal files.
/boot boot loader files.


Run levels: 
0 Halt shuts down all services and system not rebooted
1 Single user, used for maintenance, no network capabilities.
2 Multi user, for maintenance and sys testing
3 Multiuser Non GUI mode for server systems
4 custom mode used by SysAdmins
5 Graphical GUI login with run level 3
6 Reboot - shuts down all services when sys is being rebooted


Basic commands:

cd - change directory
cp - copies files or dirs
mv - moves files or directories
ls - list information
df - display sys disk space
kill - kill process
rm - delete file or dir
rmdir - deletes empty dir.
cat - display content of file or combine files.
mkdir - create dirs
ifconfig - ip information, network configuration
locate - quick search of files, updated by updatedb
tail - view end of text file, 10 lines
less - view large files part
more - display text, on screen at a  time
nano - basic text editor.
cmdnod - changes privilefes for file or dir.


Permisions and owners:
Three groups: user, group, everybody
read 4 (100), write 2 (010), execute 1(001)

Change permissions:
chmod <permision> filename
Chomod u=rw, g=r,o=r <filename>
chown changes owner adn group owner of a file 


MAC OS
About my MAC info 

Virtualization:
Allows to create multiple simulated enviroments or dedicated resources from a singgle, physical hardware system
Hypervisor/host of virtual system. Can be installed as app or system.
Virtual machine / Guest. Functions as single data file. VM does not interact directly with the host machine. Physical hardware is assigned to VMs.

Cloud enviroment for businees service catalogs. 
Virtualization management->Service delivery automation->Business service catalog-> real time monitoring->Dynaic capacity optimization.
Cloud deployment:
Consolidate
Virtualize
Automate
Migrate
Integrate
Optimize


Cloud computing - on demand availability of system resources.
Positives:
Choise and agility
Encapsulated change management
Scale and cost


Negatives:
Security
Lock-In
Lack of control
Reliability


Types of cloud:
Public / Tenant
Private 
Hybrid

Services or models:
SaaS - software as a service MS365, netflix
Paas - platform as a service (midleware, database, runtimes, dev tooling)(enviroment)
IaaS - servers, networking, data center fabric, storage.

Cloud computing benefits: flexibility, effociency, strategic value.

Cloud sercurity components: Disaster recovery, business continuity planning, governance, cpmpliance, data security,availability, identity and access management.

Cloud governance process/management aligned with services and it aligned with organization :
portfolio, service integration, team, function, management,
