SIEM: system or security information event management system is data aggregator, search and reporting system.
Gathers data from network, consolidates and makes data human accessible for analysis. Can be rule based or correlation based. 


Architecture:

Event collector: collects, normalizes raw data, bundles or coalesces identical events. Can have bandwidth limiters.
Event processor: processes events with custom rule engines. Events might be collected from one or more collector components. Stores  and correlates with other events.  
Flow collector: collects, normalizes raw flow data from span or taps, might be received form external sources in forms as netflow, sflow, jflow. 
Flow processor: removes duplicates, assymetric recombination (can recognize flows from each side), license throttling, might forward flow data. 



Qradar collects logs:
Event - log of a specific action.
Flow - record of the network activity between two hosts.
Normalization  (collector)- normalization involves turning raw data into format which SIEM can use. Parse raw data and prapare the data to display readable info. Allows indexing.
Correlation (processor)- with other events or information according context. 
Coalescing (collector)- events are parsed and coalesced based on common attributes. (3+1) Starts after 3 events with same properties (QID, Source IP, Destination IP, Destination port, Username).
Aggregation - 
Reporting (console) - 
Throttling - events that are coming in might be throttled or might be queued until I go under my license threshold, or in the event of too many at one time, 
they may actually be dropped and put directly into storage or just dropped all together, it all depends on the system and how it's monitored.
 

Asset database:
Asset - object in database. Device or user.
Information from logs goes to asset database.
Information from vulnerabilities goes to asset database.
Information from flows goes to database.

Nflow: src/dst ip, ports, protocol.
Qflows: 64 bytes.

Vulnerabilities:
Gets data from Bigfix.
Gets data from National vulnerabity database.


Rules:
Risk manager: reads config files from routers, FW, switches, show attack path.


Searches:
Save searches as quick search.


Reference sets - list or table type data structure.
Data node: does functions of the storage and searches.


DSM - device support module.
